---
title: 'TASOPT.jl: A Julia package for conceptual commercial transport aircraft design'
tags:
  - Julia
  - aerodynamics
  - propulsion systems
  - aircraft multidiciplinary design and optimization

authors:
  - name: Prakash Prashanth
    orcid: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-2346-0697
    affiliation: 1
  - name: Sicheng He
    orcid: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-1307-4909
    affiliation: 1
  - name: Diego Salgado Bobadilla
    affiliation: 1
  - name: Kanghyun Lee
    affiliation: 1
  - name: Nicolas Gomez-Vega
    affiliation: 1
    orcid: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-7921-2158
  - name: Aditeya Shukla
    affiliation: 1
  - name: Prateek Ranjan
    affiliation: 1
  - name: Jonas J Gonzalez
    affiliation: 1
  - name: Sayed Shayan Zahid 
    affiliation: 1
  - name: James Abel
    affiliation: 1
  - name: Raymond Speth
    orcid: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-8941-4554
    affiliation: 1
  - name: Mark Drela
    affiliation: 1

affiliations:
  - name: Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA, USA
    index: 1
date: 24 August 2023
bibliography: paper.bib

---

# Summary

Aircraft design is a multidisciplinary field that spans aerodynamics, structures, thermodynamics and propulsion. Prior approaches to this problem have consisted of historical correlations, empirical drag and simplified propulsion system models [@roskam], [@Raymer], [@Torenbeek]. 

TASOPT [@TASOPT], originally written in FORTRAN and developed by Mark Drela, took the approach of basing the aerodynamic, propulsion, and weight estimates on low-order models built on first-principles structural, aerodynamic, thermodynamic theory to the extent possible. This approach gives confidence that optimized aircraft designs generated by the program are not spurious artifacts of inappropriately extrapolated empirical data. 

This package, `TASOPT.jl`, is a modern, Julia based implementation of the same principles, written with the goal of extensibility in mind. The current package leverages open source Julia packages to provide an easy-to-read and maintain software. `TASOPT.jl` also introduces additional functionality such as capability to model hydrogen tanks and turbo-electric systems. In addition, the software allows users to connect it with other aircraft propulsion system tools (such as NPSS) and aircraft environmental impact assessment tools (such as AEIC).

# Statement of need

A fundamental challenge faced by the aviation sector is to minimize its impact on the environment. There are numerous research groups around the world working on various system-level solutions to this challenge. However, these research groups are often forced to resort to using simplified black-box descriptions of aircraft performance such as BADA that are limited to modeling aircraft that are currently present in the fleet. `TASOPT.jl` provides an alternative physics-based model that allows researchers to better represent current and future aircraft performance in their system level models.

Most modern aircraft design tools generally fall either into two categories: high fidelity tools (ADflow in openMDAO, SU2, Cart3D) that require extensive compute resources or simplified GUI based tools (ADS, openVSP, RDSwin) that rely on approximations and historical empiricism.  `TASOPT.jl` is a Julia package that provides an easy-to-use interface for aircraft multidisciplinary design and optimization (MDAO) in a high-level language with minimal compromise on computational speed. 

`TASOPT.jl` is designed to be used by researchers in aircraft and propulsion system design as well as educators and students (at the upper undergraduate to graduate level) in courses to understand fundamental aircraft design and optimization tradeoffs. Being written in a modern high-level language (Julia) reduces the barrier to entry for young researchers and students who wish to explore intermediate fidelity aircraft MDAO.

`TASOPT.jl` is intended to be easily integrated into existing research workflows due to the ease of integrating Julia code into existing Python code or driving other executable codes such as NPSS engine design. Planned future work includes several performance updates, modularization, integration with `ModelingToolkit.jl`, and integrating noise calculations using `pyNA` [@pyna] to estimate certification landing and take-off noise for aircraft. 

# Acknowledgements

Work on this package was supported in part by the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration Office of Environment and Energy through ASCENT, the FAA Center of Excellence for Alternative Jet Fuels and the Environment, Projects 52 and 82b through FAA Award Number 13-C-AJFE-MIT.

# References
